---
title: "Getting Started"
weight: 1
pre: "<i class='fas fa-motorcycle'></i>&nbsp;"
---

This is a step-by-step guide for installing and running a Filecoin node on your computer. Subsequent tutorials explain how to [mine Filecoin](../mining-filecoin) or [store data](../storing-on-filecoin) with your node.

## Table of Contents

* [Install Filecoin and its dependencies](#install-filecoin-and-its-dependencies)
* [Start running Filecoin](#start-running-filecoin)
* [Name your Filecoin node](#name-your-filecoin-node)
* [Start streaming activity from your node](#start-streaming-activity-from-your-node)
* [Get FIL from the Filecoin faucet](#get-fil-from-the-filecoin-faucet)
* [Connect to another Filecoin Devnet or peer](#connect-to-another-filecoin-devnet-or-peer)

## Install Filecoin (and its dependencies)

<!--
We have two installation methods available:
* install from binary (recommended for most)
* install from source (requires golang installation, rust and other tools)

### Installing from binary

  - Go to the [filecoin project page on CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/filecoin-project/go-filecoin/tree/master). (You will get a 404 error until you authenticate with GitHub.)
  - Click on the green "Success" bar above the most recent successful build for your OS (`build_linux` or `build_macos`)
  - Click the 'Artifacts' tab.
  - Click `Container 0 > filecoin.tar.gz` to download the release.
  - Unzip the `filecoin.tar.gz`
  - Fire up your terminal (_Terminal.app_ on MacOS)
  - Add `go-filecoin` to your path by opening the `filecoin` folder inside your Terminal and running:
    ```Shell
    export PATH="$(pwd)":$PATH
    ```
  - You will need to add the previous line to your shell init file like `~/.bash_profile` (advanced) or run it from the `filecoin` directory in each terminal you open.
-->
### Installing from binary
Coming soon.

### Installing from source
Follow the steps in [go-filecoin README](https://github.com/filecoin-project/go-filecoin/#installation).

#### Update Filecoin

Skip this step if you are installing for the first time. To update `go-filecoin` in the future:
```Shell
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/filecoin-project/go-filecoin
git fetch origin devnet-user -f
git checkout devnet-user
FILECOIN_USE_PRECOMPILED_RUST_PROOFS=true go run ./build/*.go deps
go run ./build/*.go build
go run ./build/*.go install
```

## Start running Filecoin

1. If you have run go-filecoin before, remove existing Filecoin initialization data:
    ```Shell
    rm -rf ~/.filecoin
    ```

1. Initialize go-filecoin. The `--devnet-user` flag connects you to our main devnet.
    ```Shell
    go-filecoin init --devnet-user --genesisfile=http://user.kittyhawk.wtf:8020/genesis.car
    ```

1. Start your go-filecoin daemon.
    ```Shell
    go-filecoin daemon
    ```
    This should return "My peer ID is `<peerID>`", where `<peerID>` is a long [CID](https://github.com/filecoin-project/specs/blob/master/definitions.md#cid) string starting with "Qm".

    Note: this can be **slow** the first time. The filecoin node needs a large parameter file for proofs, stored in `/tmp/filecoin-proof-parameters`. It's usually generated by the `deps` build step. If these files are missing they will be regenerated, which can take up to an hour. We are working on a better solution.

    Note: if you're a developer and wish to connect to the _nightly_ devnet rather than _user_ devnet, you must configure your node to use small sectors, and build from the `devnet-nightly` tag.

    ```shell
    env FIL_USE_SMALL_SECTORS=true go-filecoin daemon
    ```

1. Check your connectivity
    ```Shell
    go-filecoin swarm peers                  # lists addresses of peers to which you're connected
    ```
    The last segment of a peer's address is it's `peerID`. Test your connection directly to a peer with
    ```Shell
    go-filecoin ping <peerID>                # Pings the peer and displays round-trip latency.
    ```

🎉 Woohoo! You are now running a Filecoin node and connected to the network. This is the anatomy of a basic node (plus a miner, which you'll create in the next step, [Mining Filecoin](../mining-filecoin)):
[[/images/getting-started-node-diagram.png|Diagram of a single node and its components]]

_Note: The daemon is now running indefinitely in its own Terminal (`Ctrl + C` to quit). To run other `go-filecoin` commands, you'll need to open a second Terminal tab or window (`Cmd + T` on Mac)._

It may take several minutes for your node to sync and validate the existing blockchain, during which you'll observe intense activity on one CPU core.

_Need help? See [Troubleshooting & FAQ](../troubleshooting-and-faq) or [#fil-dev on Matrix chat](https://riot.im/app/#/room/#fil-dev:matrix.org)._

## Name your Filecoin node

By default, nodes are referenced by long, alphanumeric node IDs. You can give your node a human-readable nickname.
* Nicknames can only contain letter characters (no numbers, spaces, or other special characters).

1. Open a new Terminal window and set your node nickname (replace `Pizzanode` with the name of your choice):

    ```Shell
    go-filecoin config heartbeat.nickname "Pizzanode"
    ```
1. The new name takes effect immediately, no need to restart. You can check the configured name with:

    ```Shell
    go-filecoin config heartbeat.nickname
    ```

## Start streaming activity from your node

We have a few visualization tools to understand what's happening on the Filecoin network: the [Network Stats](https://stats.kittyhawk.wtf/) and [block explorer](../block-explorer).

To see your node on the network stats, you'll need to opt in to streaming your node's logs. Open a new Terminal window and run:

```Shell
go-filecoin config heartbeat.beatTarget "/dns4/stats-infra.kittyhawk.wtf/tcp/8080/ipfs/QmUWmZnpZb6xFryNDeNU7KcJ1Af5oHy7fB9npU67sseEjR"
```
Restart the currently running `go-filecoin daemon` process and then go to the [Network Stats](https://stats.kittyhawk.wtf/) and watch your node reach consensus with the rest of the network.

## Get FIL from the Filecoin faucet

Before Filecoin nodes can participate in the marketplace, they will need some start-up filecoin tokens (FIL). Clients need FIL in their accounts to make storage deals with miners. Miners use FIL for collateral when initially pledging storage to the network.

During early testing, you can obtain mock FIL from the Filecoin faucet. The "faucet" is thusly named because it drips (or pours) FIL into those who stick their wallets under it. Using mock FIL allows for preliminary testing of market dynamics without the requirement for any money to actually change hands.

All balances of FIL are stored in wallets. When a node is newly created, it will have a Filecoin wallet with a balance of 0 FIL.

1. Let's get you some FIL. Get your wallet address:

    ```Shell
    go-filecoin wallet addrs ls
    ```

1. The output should be a long alphanumeric string. Go to the User Devnet faucet at [http://user.kittyhawk.wtf:9797](http://user.kittyhawk.wtf:9797) and submit that wallet address. It will take a minute for the FIL to land in your wallet.

    1. Alternatively, you can tap the faucet from the command line:

        ```Shell
        export WALLET_ADDR=`go-filecoin wallet addrs ls`    # fetch your wallet address into a handy variable
        MESSAGE_CID=`curl -X POST -F "target=${WALLET_ADDR}" "http://user.kittyhawk.wtf:9797/tap" | cut -d" " -f4`
        ```

1. The faucet will provide you with a message CID. The message should be processed in about 30 seconds. You can run the following command to wait for confirmation:

    ```Shell
    go-filecoin message wait ${MESSAGE_CID}
    ```

1. To verify that the FIL has landed in your wallet, check your wallet balance:

    ```Shell
    go-filecoin wallet balance ${WALLET_ADDR}
    ```

🎉 Congrats, you're now connected to Filecoin AND can begin mining or storing data on the Filecoin network! Next, choose your adventure:
- [Mining Filecoin](../mining-filecoin), or
- [Storing Data](../storing-on-filecoin).
